---
title: Sexuality Education
permalink: /teams/CCE-Team/sexuality-education/permalink/
description: ""
third_nav_title: CCE Team
variant: tiptap
---
<h4><strong>MOE SEXUALITY EDUCATION IN SCHOOLS</strong></h4><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong>1. Sexuality Education (SEd) in schools aims to enable students to understand</p><p>the physiological, social and emotional changes they experience as they mature,</p><p>develop healthy and rewarding relationships with others, including those with</p><p>members of the opposite sex, and make wise, informed and responsible decisions</p><p>on sexuality matters. SEd is premised on the importance of the family as the basic</p><p>unit of society. This means encouraging healthy, heterosexual marriages and stable</p><p>nuclear family units with extended family support. The teaching and learning of SEd</p><p>is based on respect for the values and beliefs of the different ethnic and religious</p><p>communities in Singapore on sexuality issues.</p><p>3. <strong>The Key Messages of Sexuality Education are</strong>:</p><p>(a) Love and respect yourself as you love and respect others;</p><p>(b) Build positive relationships based on love and respect (which are the</p><p>foundation for strong families);</p><p>(c) Make responsible decisions for yourself, your family and society; and</p><p>(d) Abstinence before marriage is the best protection against STIs/HIV and</p><p>unintended pregnancies. Casual sex can harm and hurt you and your</p><p>loved ones.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>You may click here (please insert hyperlink: <a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-</a></p><p>education) for more information on MOE Sexuality Education.</p><p></p><p></p><ol><li><p></p></li><li><p></p></li><li><p></p></li><li><p></p></li><li><p></p></li><li><p></p></li><li><p>Sexuality Education (SEd) in schools aims to enable students to understand the physiological, social and emotional changes they experience as they mature, develop healthy and rewarding relationships with others, including those with members of the opposite sex, and make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters. SEd is premised on the importance of the family as the basic unit of society. This means encouraging healthy, heterosexual marriages and stable nuclear family units with extended family support. The teaching and learning of SEd is based on respect for the values and beliefs of the different ethnic and religious communities in Singapore on sexuality issues.</p></li><li><p><strong>The Goals of Sexuality Education are:</strong> (a) Support students in managing their physiological, social and emotional changes as they grow up and develop safe and healthy relationships. (b) Guide students to make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters. (c) Help students develop a moral compass and respect for themselves and others by having positive mainstream values and attitudes about sexuality that are premised on the family as the basic unit of society.</p></li><li><p><strong>The Key Messages of Sexuality Education are</strong>: (a) Love and respect yourself as you love and respect others; (b) Build positive relationships based on love and respect (which are the foundation for strong families); (c) Make responsible decisions for yourself, your family and society; and (d) Abstinence before marriage is the best protection against STIs/HIV and unintended pregnancies. Casual sex can harm and hurt you and your loved ones.</p></li></ol><h4>You may click here (<a href="https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">MOE Sexuality Education</a>) for more information on MOE Sexuality Education.</h4><p>=========================================================================================</p><h2>OVERVIEW OF WOODLANDS RING PRIMARY SCHOOL’S SEXUALITY EDUCATION PROGRAMME FOR 2024.</h2><h4> Sexuality Education is delivered in a holistic manner through the school curriculum. The content for Sexuality Education is grouped into five main themes: Human Development, Interpersonal Relationships, Sexual Health, Sexual Behaviour, and, Culture, Society and Law. You may click here (please insert hyperlink: https://go.gov.sg/moe-sexuality-education-scope) for more information on the scope of Sexuality Education in the school curriculum.</h4><h4></h4><ol start="5"><li><p>The subjects that incorporate topics on sexuality include: a. Science b. Character and Citizenship Education (CCE) Sexuality Education Lessons:</p></li><li><p>The upper primary years mark the onset of puberty. With better nutrition and improved health care, children are reaching puberty at a younger age and have to grapple with physical, emotional and psychological changes in themselves. The implication is that our children are becoming biologically ready for sexual activity sooner without necessarily having the corresponding cognitive or emotional maturity to modulate their behaviours. Furthermore, our young are also exposed to a wide range of influences that could endanger health and undermine the integrity of the family. Our students require close guidance so that they can respond with discernment to the sexual messages in the media and other sources.</p></li><li><p>Sexuality Education (SEd) lessons are taught as part of CCE (FTGP) at Primary 5 and 6. Through these lessons, students will learn healthy ways to manage the physiological, social and emotional changes in their growing years. They learn to build healthy and rewarding relationships with others, including those with members of the opposite sex. Students are also guided to make wise, informed and responsible decisions to keep themselves safe from sexuality-related risks.</p></li></ol><h1>Sexuality Education</h1><h2>KEY MESSAGES</h2><p>The key messages for students to understand are as follows: a) Love and respect yourself as you love and respect others; b) Build positive relationships based on love and respect (which are the foundation for strong families); c) Make responsible decisions for yourself, your family, and the society; and d) Abstinence before marriage is the best protection against STIs/HIV and unwanted pregnancies. Casual sex can harm and hurt you and your loved ones.</p><h3><strong>Sexuality Education aims to help students:</strong></h3><p>A.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Make wise, responsible, and informed decisions through the provision of accurate, current, and age-appropriate knowledge on human sexuality and the consequences of sexual activity.</p><p>B.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Know themselves and build healthy and rewarding relationships through the acquisition of social and emotional skills of self-awareness, management of their thoughts, feelings, and behaviours, development of empathy for others, possession of effective communication, problem-solving.</p><p>C.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Develop a moral compass, respect for themselves and for others as sexual beings, premised on the heterosexual married couple forming a nuclear family as the basic unit of society, through the inculcation of positive mainstream values and attitudes about sexuality.</p><table><tbody><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="2"><p><strong>Topics</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="2"><p>Sexuality Education in schools is about enabling students to understand the physiological, social, and emotional changes they experience as they mature, develop healthy and rewarding relationships including those with members of the opposite sex, and make wise, informed and responsible decisions on sexuality matters. Topics include:</p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Primary 5</strong></p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p><strong>Primary 6</strong></p></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Puberty — change in me</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Pornography</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sexual Abuse</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Relationship with family and friends — taking perspectives</p></td><td rowspan="1" colspan="1"><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Puberty — entering adolescence, self-image</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Attraction, love and infatuation</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Relationship with family and friends — my support network</p></td></tr></tbody></table><h2>Information for Parents</h2><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents may opt their children out of the Growing Years programme.</p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents who wish to opt their children out of the&nbsp;<strong>Growing Years (GY) programme</strong>&nbsp;need to complete an opt-out form. This form will be distributed to parents at the start of the year.</p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Parents can contact the school at&nbsp;<strong>63643679</strong>&nbsp;for discussion or to seek clarification about the school’s sexuality education programme.</p>